--- 
wordpress_id: 191
layout: post
title: My 1 hour Vista experiment
wordpress_url: /archive/my-1-hour-vista-experiment/
---

<p>My apologizes for being so quiet this past week... will have some more soon.</p> <p>Last weekend, I got my hands on the Vista RC1 download (which also came available on MSDN), but ended up not installing it right away.</p> <p>Finally, tonight I decided to take the plunge and install it.&nbsp; And then about an hour later, I was restoring my old install.&nbsp; My RC1 experience went like this:</p> <ul> <li>Installed Vista (no problem)</li> <li>Downloaded Nvidia and Audigy drivers</li> <li>Installed the two drivers and rebooted</li> <li>Vista came up and my mouse no longer worked</li> <li>Used keyboard to get the system to reboot again, figuring maybe a fluke.</li> <li>Vista came back up, and the mouse was working again.&nbsp; Logged in, and then got some memory management BSOD and it rebooted for me.</li> <li>Came back up again, and the mouse wasn't work once more.</li></ul> <p>After that, was back to restore my old set up.&nbsp; Now, <a href="http://www.secretgeek.net/geeksfreeks.asp">this guy</a> may have been right that geeks love to dig in and fix problems, which I usually do, but not when it comes to beta testing and operating system.&nbsp; There are some things I need to <em>just work</em>.&nbsp; My operating system is one of them.&nbsp; Without it, I can't code.&nbsp; I can't code, I can't work.</p> <p>Overall, I don't think Vista was the cause of my problems.&nbsp; If I had to put my finger on anything, I'd have to say it was the Audigy drivers.&nbsp; They haven't had a specific RC1 release of the drivers, and I've heard of the drivers being a little problematic.&nbsp; I'm not a big Creative fan, and likely won't get another one of their cards.</p> <p>Though before I installed the drivers, I did poke around to see what drivers I was missing.&nbsp; It looks like I will definitely need to be doing some hardware upgrades before I get Vista.&nbsp; First, I may want to continue avoiding Creative's Vista drivers.&nbsp; Second, my video card is grossly outdated (I don't play games on my computer, it scored a 2.0 on the Windows Experience Index).&nbsp; And third, there doesn't seem to be Vista drivers for my RAID card.&nbsp; I'm using a slightly older Intel SATA PCI-X RAID card that works in 32-bit mode.&nbsp; It is older and not really meant for desktops, so I wouldn't expect them to jump on driver support for Vista.&nbsp; Perhaps I could just switch to using onboard RAID, since I am doing just RAID1 (had originally planned on doing RAID5, but never got the needed third drive).</p> <p>So I knew I was going to have to do some upgrades, and that I would need a new laptop (had Beta2 on my laptop, it was slow and painful).&nbsp; I guess now I know I'll need my desktop first, since I use it far more for my daily work than my laptop.</p>
         
