--- 
wordpress_id: 342
layout: post
title: No backwards compatibility in Visual Studio?
wordpress_url: /archive/no-backwards-compatibility-in-visual-studio/
---

<p>Thus far, I&#39;ve been avoiding installing Visual Studio 2008 on my desktop for one reason... I am dreading going back to the dual Visual Studio version days.&nbsp; I hated back when Visual Studio 2005 came out and used to constantly be switching between 2003 and 2005.&nbsp; There were&nbsp;3 main annoyances:</p> <ul> <li>Accidentally open a source controlled 2003 project in 2005 and have to upgrade, then get nagged with checking it in, or having to close 2005 and re-open 2003.  <li>In CS 2.x, we actually had separate projects for 2003 and 2005... it was a pain when someone added a file to one and not the other.  <li>VS 2005 was a big improvement over 2003, however for a lot of projects at the time, I was stuck still using 2003 for a while when I would have liked to been using 2005.</li></ul> <p>Really, you would think the Visual Studio Team could address this.&nbsp; 2008 allows compiling to previous versions of the framework, so why can&#39;t it open and re-save older project files?&nbsp; At the very least, allow it to use 2005 project files without upgrading.&nbsp; Comparing them, there isn&#39;t a whole lot of difference.&nbsp; However if you upgrade it to 2008, 2005 won&#39;t open it.</p> <p>What alarms me most is the following:</p> <ul> <li>Developers like being cutting edge, so they know we&#39;re going to want to upgrade.  <li>Company policy often won&#39;t let products jump to the latest and greatest right away.&nbsp; IE, CS 2008 is committed to .NET 2.0 already, and we&#39;ll want our project files for the SDK to work in VS 2005.&nbsp; We&#39;ll likely go to .NET 3.5/VS 2008 by CS 2009.  <li>Developers use (or should use) source control.&nbsp; One can&#39;t upgrade unless all the developers upgrade.  <li><strong>No backwards compatibility hinders adoption.</strong></li></ul> <p>Office does this flawlessly.&nbsp; Office 2007 introduced new document formats, but it still work seamlessly with older versions.&nbsp; A Office 2003 user can send me a Word document, I can open it, make changes, save it, and send it back to them with no problems.&nbsp; It doesn&#39;t force me to update the document.</p> <p><em>So why can&#39;t Visual Studio offer the same thing?</em></p>
         
