--- 
wordpress_id: 343
layout: post
title: Revisiting Visual Studio experience
wordpress_url: /archive/revisiting-visual-studio-experience/
---

<p>With the release of Visual Studio 2008, I went and installed it on my laptop and have been starting to play around with .NET 3.5, LINQ, and also doing some IIS7 managed modules.&nbsp; The recent upgrade and prompted me to re-evaluate some of the tools I use with Visual Studio.</p> <p>In the past, I&#39;ve been an avid <a href="http://www.jetbrains.com/resharper/">ReSharper</a> user.&nbsp; I&#39;ve been using ReSharper for about 3 years now.&nbsp; Currently, I&#39;m still on their 2.5 release, since 3.0 wasn&#39;t really a compelling upgrade to pay for.&nbsp; And right now, I&#39;m not really sure if I will continue to use ReSharper.&nbsp; They currently don&#39;t support the new extensions in C# 3.0, and <a href="http://resharper.blogspot.com/2007/11/resharper-and-visual-studio-2008.html">have posted</a> they will have support in January with their Early Access Program.&nbsp; This is kind of disappointing.&nbsp; Sure, January isn&#39;t far, but would have to use an EAP release?&nbsp; Most of their EAPs are pretty good, though I&#39;ve always avoided the ones early on in a new version.&nbsp; Also, it would be a v4.0, and not yet known if I pay for 3.0 now, would I get 4.0 for free.</p> <p>On the flip side, I&#39;ve been starting to look at Devexpress&#39;s <a href="http://www.devexpress.com/Products/NET/IDETools/CodeRush/">CodeRush</a> some more.&nbsp; I had played with it before, though not used it that much.&nbsp; At times, the templating can get in the way, but just a matter of tweaking the type of code the templates enter and what templates you have enabled to your particular coding style.&nbsp; Visually, CodeRush is awesome.&nbsp; I love its color coded identation indicators, its options for things like code analysis, and warming up to the templating.</p> <p>However, there are a few things I still find holes in.&nbsp; Namely:</p> <ul> <li>ReSharper&#39;s on-the-fly syntax checking was awesome.&nbsp; I fat finger things a lot, and it covers my back so it doesn&#39;t halt me at compile time.  <li>Automatically adding namespaces.&nbsp; I hate typing something up, then not getting intellisense since I realized I need to go to the top and add the System.Xml namespace or something  <li>Its code generation is at times better than templating.&nbsp; IE, to create a bunch of properties for private variables, ReSharper rocks.&nbsp; Alt+Ins, Read+Write Property, and it adds them all at once.  <li>Close All?&nbsp; Hello, I don&#39;t know why Visual Studio doesn&#39;t have this by default.&nbsp; Right click on a document tab and can Close All... all VS has by default is Close All But This.  <li>&quot;Find Usages&quot; and &quot;Find Usages Advanced&quot; absolutely rock in ReSharper, beats Visual Studio&#39;s Find All References.  <li>&quot;Find by type&quot; and &quot;Find by filename&quot;.&nbsp; Community Server is a big ass project, so like heck do I know which folder a particular class is in.&nbsp; I just hit Ctrl+N, start typing User, hit enter, and boom, it loads the User class.</li></ul> <p>These are the things I haven&#39;t been able to find a replacement for.&nbsp; Some things I could get used to... the code generation could get used to, the Find All References I probably could, but some of the others like error checking, namespacing, and type finding, that would be hard to go with out.</p> <p>So looking at two options:</p> <ol> <li>Switch to CodeRush, get <a href="http://testdriven.net/">TestDriven.NET</a> (for unit test runner), find some add-ins for the can&#39;t-live-without from above.  <li>Upgrade to ReSharper 3.0, find some add-ins to add similar indent highlighting.</li></ol> <p>So my question to those of you out there... anyone know of any add-ins for Visual Studio that cover any of the above?</p>
         
